Everyone is striving for talented,
skillful, smart people. Revolute values
way more raw intellect and this
unquenched hunger to build things rather
than experience. I hear one of the ways
you approach early products differently
as you guys invest a lot in actually
making it good. It's not getting
traction. Is it because the underlying
idea is wrong or maybe your product just
sucks? By forcing everyone to build a
product that people will love, we kind
of cut out this part of uncertainty. We
can cut down the product in terms of
functionality to to just most critical
features, but we will never compromise
on the quality and UX and the
aesthetics. Is there anything that
you've figured out about just how to set
up new products for success? If
something is 99% done, it's closer to 0%
rather than 100%.
Today my guest is Dimmitri Locazo.
Dimmitri is global head of product at
Revolute which is a finance super
offering customer savings and checking
accounts, crypto, investing, joint
accounts, even mortgages. Not only was
it last valued at over $60 billion, but
in the research that I've been doing
into which companies hire and incubate
the best product managers, Revolute was
right at the top alongside Palunteer and
Intercom. And so in our conversation, we
dig into what Revolute has learned about
producing and hiring great product
leaders, including a focus on ownership,
having people solve really painful and
complex problems while making the
experience wow and lovable by users,
also indexing towards hiring really
smart and driven people early in their
career versus people with a ton of
experience in the space, and so much
more. If you're looking for a job that
will accelerate your product career or
want to help your product team level up,
this episode is for you. If you enjoy
this podcast, don't forget to subscribe
and follow it in your favorite
podcasting app or YouTube. Also, if you
become an annual subscriber of my
newsletter, you get a year free of
linear superhuman notion perplexity and
granola. Check it out at
lennisnewsletter.com and click bundle.
With that, I bring you Dimmitri Locazo.
This entire episode is brought to you by
Stripe. There's a reason that I've had
more guests on this podcast from Stripe
than any other company. It's because
they hire the best people and they build
incredible products. You probably know
them for their payments platform, which
powers my newsletter, and also companies
like Nvidia and Salesforce and Zoom and
Door Dash. What you may not know is that
they have several other products that
can help accelerate your revenue such as
Stripe Billing, which powers billing for
companies that you may have heard of.
Open AAI, Anthropic, Figma, Atlassian,
and over 300,000 other companies. Stripe
billing lets you bill and manage
customers however you want. from simple
recurring billing to usage based billing
to sales negotiated contracts. There's
also Stripe's optimized checkout suite,
which is a plug-and-play super optimized
payments flow that natively supports
over 100 global dynamic payment methods.
There's also Protocol Link, which is an
accelerated checkout experience built
specifically to increase your checkout
conversion. Every single one of the
Forb's top 50 AI companies that have a
product in the market today use Stripe
to monetize it. Half of Fortune 100
companies use Stripe. $1.4 trillion
dollars flows through Stripe annually,
which is equivalent to over 1% of global
GDP. Use Stripe to handle all of your
payment related needs, billing, manage
revenue operations, and launch or invent
new business models. Learn more at
stripe.com. Dimmitri, thank you so much
for being here and welcome to the
podcast. Hi Lenny, I'm happy to be here.
As you know, I've been doing a bunch of
research into which companies hire and
create the best product managers. And
I've been triangulating this across a
bunch of different data points. I've
been looking at which companies alumni
product managers get promoted most when
they leave the company, become chief
product officers at the highest rate
when they leave the company, uh become
the first PM at a startup, also start
their own companies. And when I
triangulate it across all the different
all these different data points, there's
three companies that are kind of sat at
the top. Uh you guys, Revolute, uh
Palunteer, and Intercom. Clearly, you
guys are doing something really special.
I don't think a lot of people,
especially in the US, know a ton about
Revolute. And so, I'm really excited to
have you here. I'm really excited to
basically extract as much wisdom as I
can from you about what you guys have
figured out in helping in hiring and
training product managers. So I want to
actually start with giving people uh a
slight understanding of what is
Revolute. I think a lot of people in the
US especially don't know much about it.
So what's the simplest way to understand
what you guys do? Revolute challenges
banks in uh 50 different countries and
it all started 10 years ago in London.
So maybe let me give you a bit of a
context. uh especially for someone based
in the US it's it's important to
understand that European banking
landscape is very diverse in the US if
you travel from state to state like
things are different but for example you
always pay in US dollars right in in the
UK you pay in British pound if you
travel to mainland Europe you will pay
in euro but if you go to Switzerland
you'll pay in Swiss Franks if you go to
Sweden you'll pay in Swedish crown and
so on so overall there are 25 different
currencies and every time you were
traveling and paying in a different
currency, banks were charging you
exorbitant fees on top of terrible
foreign exchange rates. And that's when
Revolute launched as a multicurrency
uh
card. And people loved it. They they
loved that Revolute was saving them 50
or 100 euros, but even more so they
loved the transparency and simplicity of
the
product. And that's why when we started
rolling rolling out more and more
products based on those principles, they
were quickly getting trust of people,
they were quickly getting traction. So
that's how P2P transfers appeared and
then frictionless crypto buying and
withdrawal to a bank account appeared
and then more and more products, credit
products, savings products and so on.
Awesome. And then just to give people a
few uh like kind of the scale of the
company, how many employees are there
roughly? I think the last valuation
something around 60 billion. I don't
know if you can even comment on that,
but just what are some numbers real
quick for people to understand the scale
of the company at this point? Uh the
headcount is not something we we're
trying to increase to be honest.
Actually, Revel tries to stay as lean as
possible, but I think it's Yeah, it's
just that our appetite for growth is so
big that I think we're currently at
maybe uh six or 7,000 employees. Wow.
Okay, cool. So, let's get into the what
you've learned about building an amazing
product team and also hiring an amazing
product team. So first of all, you call
your product managers product owners.
And when we were chatting through
initially, I was like, "Oh, I see it's
just like a big scrum business and they
just have all these product owners who,
you know, many times on this podcast,
people have talked about that's not
actually a product manager, but that's
not at all how you work." So in this
context, product owner is an actual
owner. Talk about just the kind of the
story behind why you call the your
product managers product owners. Yeah,
it's not a scrum term for us. It's just
our take on emphasizing how ownership is
important really. So product owners are
central to company and its growth. Um
they are end to end responsible for the
product for this part of the business
and for their customers to be
happy and for that they do really
everything. uh they run the teams, they
define which road map
uh we need to build to improve certain
business metrics and uh they also
contribute to like high level company
strategy but then most importantly they
execute on it
relentlessly and
u they are ultimate responsibles for for
the product to be shipped and achieve
results. There's always this term of a
mini CO. PM is a mini CO and it feels
like in your context that's actually
what you try to do with your product
team is they're essentially mini CEOs.
They have a lot of power. Like I think
engineers, designers report to them. Is
that right? Yeah. Correct. Well, I I
prefer say local co local. Okay. Talk
about that. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. But that's
true. So the way we operate
uh we have these uh fully cross
functional teams uh meaning they are
staffed with all necessary functions
engineers data analysts designers
operation managers and so on and um we
also operate in a metric. So everyone
has a line manager and a functional
manager. So product owner is always the
line manager for everyone on the team.
Meaning product owner defines what they
need to do but then functional managers
they define how these things need to be
built and uh essentially with the right
level of quality and so on. I love this
because it's so fun just to learn about
such different ways of operating. Uh
another fact that I saw is that there's
two types of product owners. There's
kind of like a UX product owner and then
there's a different like a technical
product owner. We actually have three
and the third type becomes uh
increasingly more important. So the
first type is UX product owners. Uh then
there are technical product owners and
then there are data science product
owners. So UX product owners are the
ones who uh
who work on consumerf facing part of the
product. uh usually they they have a
great uh taste for for things and they
understand what constitutes UX that will
work and which things will not work. So
they also have this expertise in in the
industry. Then tech product owners
uh they are the ones who delve deepest
into details. Usually those are former
engineers uh
who who grew into making decisions and
driving business. And the data science
product owners are usually former data
scientists uh who decided to to grow
into management positions, but they're
still very hands-on. And you know what?
There are a lot there are way more
things that are common to each of these
three specializations.
So what we see sometimes is people just
shifting them because I would say that
you know what defines the specialization
is probably 5 10 15%. While 85 to 90% is
common to each one of them and those
things are so first of all being a great
problem
solver and uh have a great uh linear
thinking but also you know have a
creative approach towards nonlinear
problems.
Then building this context of for
customer and building empathy towards
customer and translate it in translating
it into the
team. Then going down to to details very
very deep because in our domain there
are no obvious things and uh you need to
get to the root cause of the problem
really really deep to to to understand
okay what will work and what will not
work and that means that you also need
to be quite technical even if you're UXO
you still need to often go as deep as
sitting you know within engineers and
reading
code. Uh and then I would also emphasize
uh importance of business acumen because
uh we we tend to measure uh and quantify
product performance a lot and you need
to understand okay what things will we
build that will drive eventually that
business metric and that target. So I
love this idea of the product owners
having to go really deep. I think a lot
of people hearing this, they think they
can go deep, go deep, really understand
the the details of what they're working
on. I'm curious if there's an example
that's illustrative of just what you
actually mean here. For example, uh to
provide the best possible product in
every country of presence, uh we need to
have necessary licenses. In Europe, it
means that we need to launch local
branches of our European bank. for
example, a branch for France, a branch
for Germany or a branch for
Italy. To launch a branch, you need to
fully comply with all necessary
regulation. You need to
u you need to report necessary data on
customers to various regulators and
authorities. You need to register with
local payment systems. And each of these
things they uh they have a lot of
projects nested within uh we have a very
lean team of just a few people who need
to scope everything and do it at a scale
of like of 50 countries. Right? So the
way we do it is we go very deep on
example of each of these project. For
example, we launched a branch in
Ireland. We launched a branch in
Netherlands. Then we reverse engineered
what was the the best process to do it
and then we went back up on top level
and we said okay but what's the what's
the ideal framework of doing it at scale
and then we formalized it into a process
really like an algorithmic process with
steps and quality gates and senes and
like which what people do we need to
hire and how how soon do we need to
start doing that before we want to
launch
a new
country and then so it's not only going
deep but also being flexible you know
and like doing this switch between
zooming in very deep and then raising on
the on the level of of helicopter view
and then understanding okay so this
seemed very very complex in details but
then when you zoom out like how can we
simplify it and build a robust process
around it which is scalable and that's
something that uh we have to do a lot as
you're talking and we go through this
chat I'm keeping kind of track of what I
think is most contributing to your
alumni product owners product managers
becoming so successful so a couple
things so far that I think are probably
contributing to this is one is just
having a lot of ownership over what
they're building which uh leads to
building skills to start companies and
become leaders at other companies so
these product owners that you have are
just like own a lot and are essentially
GMs of the of whatever product they're
working on. And then there's this depth
and complexity where you have to really
get good at understanding a problem
really deeply. I imagine many of these
people go on to work on something like
that layer somewhere else because
they've spent all this time or they just
get really good at dealing with complex
uh many layered problems. So is there
anything else just kind of along those
lines as I say that that you think is
important? I would probably add an
obsession with u building wow product.
Wow. Wow. Wow. Cool. Um and you know I
think in fintech overall this is
probably the most neglected part usually
but it's also a part that we at Revolute
we pay enormous attention to. So it's
not only you know when you when you do a
trade in the app or when you send money
it's very important for it to be very
fast and uh uh cheap process for you so
that you don't pay a lot of fees but we
also pay a lot of attention to look and
feel of the app and how smooth it is and
how uh frictionless the process. Not
only we invest
into reducing clicks and optimizing
funnels, but we also want people to feel
that we really cared about them. We also
want people to feel that we we love our
customers and we applied extra effort to
for the product to look great and feel
great. And uh I hear this a lot from our
customers like the the the app is
something they really love and it helps
them solve their problems. It's at least
one of the ingredients of of the company
success. Uh and I think people that work
at Revel they built habit of you know
paying attention to these small nuances
small details that make the product
lovable. And then second is handling
this context because you know like it's
a lot of details where you need to dive
but there are also a lot of dimensions
where you need to dive into different
details right and I think this ability
to to have to keep this like large
context in your mind and consider second
order effects and like view subject from
multiple angles. I think that this is
also a very important skill that people
usually train at Revolute. Okay, cool.
So, we have three three uh bullet points
on the on the ingredients of great uh
product managers/owners that you guys
incubate on this wow piece which I love.
How do you operationalize this sort of
thing? I imagine a big part of it is
hiring people that are really good at
this and value building lovable
products. Is there any way you kind of
have a process around making sure the
things you ship are wow and lovable? two
things that uh you need to understand
about how Revolute operates is that we
operate in small lean teams that are
tasked to build products and uh as I
mentioned like and having endto-end
responsibility for products and usually
they're the ones who built it from zero
and then they they're growing and
developing this product and then another
thing is that uh company is very flat
and hierarchy is very flat. We still
have our founders Nick and Blood very
hands-on
uh going down to details for every
product and every part of the
business and every week they have a
product reviews with every team uh
giving an opportunity to every product
owner present directly to CEO and CTO
and uh show what team what what
increment has team achieved in the last
week but also uh get steering uh from
founders which is super valuable. So
essentially founders of the company they
still review 100% of screens that have
been shipped and everything that you
will see in the app this this past this
review and there are a lot of uh
eyeballs that were you know scrutinizing
this and thinking of all possible edge
cases and uh uh nuances that we need to
consider to make sure that every single
customer will be happy in this product
in this flow. That seems to be a
consistent theme in products that are
incredible as the founders are deeply
involved in in the experience and review
everything. Uh how many how many product
owners are there at Revolute? Just to
give people a sense, by the way. Oh, I'm
afraid to say it's already more than 150
people, maybe 170. Cool. That's that's
what I would expect. And then you said
that uh there's kind of these three
types. There's kind of like the nge
type, the PM traditional type, and
there's the data product owner. When you
hire the UX type of product owner, do
they is their previous role usually a
product manager at another company? Yes.
Um, but I would say
that not necessarily. It's a very
experienced product manager. Well, maybe
even it's way more important
to to have this hunger for building
things, you know, and u uh having raw
intellect. And we always try to find
people with uh these intrinsic traits
rather than, you know, hiring people who
are very experienced but maybe uh are
not super excited about building things.
What percentage of your product donors
come from internal transfers from other
functions? It's a quite substantial part
of product owners who eventually become
very successful by the way. So it's like
a positive self- select. So it means
that someone already succeeded in
another role. So it's a guaranteed
culture match.
It's it's a guaranteed domain knowledge
and then they simply grow. Usually it
could be operations managers or
engineers. They grow into someone who
now manages the team and that's why it's
a very successful path. So the other
company on the list of top three
companies that produce and hire the best
PMs according to the research I've done,
Palunteer. I just had someone that was
at Palunteer for a long time and we
talked about exactly all the same
questions. And interestingly, so so far
we have kind of these three bullet
points uh in terms of what peop product
owners within Revolute uh get to do.
There's a lot of ownership, there's a
lot of depth and complexity and there's
a lot of uh focus on wow lovable
products. So interestingly at Palanteer
also tons of ownership also tons of
depth and complexity. The other
ingredient that I want to ask you about
is they also they have this concept of a
forward deployed engineer where they put
an engineer in the office of the company
they're building the product from. they
sit there building it for them with them
and so there's a lot of skills built in
terms of uh understanding customer
problems talking to customers getting
you know empathy building things like
that is there anything you guys do or
focus on around just like talking to
customers a way you approach having your
product owners work with customers
understand problems things like that
that might be helpful for people to hear
for us it's a bit easy uh to reach out
to customers simply because the customer
base is so big it's more than 50 million
people and uh usually
uh we ourselves are power users of the
product. Um we receive our salary into
Revolute and then we we spend with
Revolute our friends the same. So, it's
it's like a no-brainer to to talk to
people continuously and even if you're
not proactive into in it like they will
reach out if you have a problem in the
product like I guarantee that we we know
about it very very soon. We we've also
built tools for product owners and
designers to have an easy access to a
panel of users via different tools so
that they can just start an interviewing
process or a survey or a test of
different designs in a few clicks. For
me, it was very important to build this
direct connection to customers because
when you delegate such an important
thing as as customer research and
collecting their feedback to someone,
you will get uh refined the filtered
version. You won't get this, you know,
like the this um nuances of how people
describe things, which emotions they
they feel like and so on and where where
they think stuck. It's it's very easy to
lose all those important bites of
information in this process. So I'm a
strong believer that it's very important
to have direct uh communication channel
to to to customers. And as you describe
this, it's funny how you're think you're
guys at the extreme opposite end of the
spectrum from Palunteer in terms of how
easy it is for you to get feedback. They
build stuff for like the government and
for like Airbus where employees would
never use a product like that or need a
product like that. you guys are uh
getting paid in Revolute using Revolute
to pay for things and constantly in the
product and so I could see why there's
less of a need for something like a
forward deploy engineer. Okay, amazing.
Let's talk about hiring then. Is there
is there anything unique about how you
approach hiring, sourcing, looking for
people, what you look for in people that
you think might be contributing to your
alumni being so successful down the
road. I think everyone is uh striving
for talented, skillful, smart people and
experienced people. Uh
Revolute values way more raw intellect
and
um this unquenched hunger to build
things rather than experience. So let
let me maybe you know like bring an
example.
Imagine we all saw this like you hire a
great experienced professional
uh with amazing regalia of achieving a
lot of things. But then what I see in
product the adoption curve is usually
longer than in other functions because
product owners by definition are the
ones who you know who are the experts in
that domain and they know those
intricacies of of how product is built
and how it's used. So what we see from
these professionals is they still take a
lot of time to ramp up uh and uh
sometimes they also take time to adapt
to new culture or worse they just rest
on their
laurels but you already have like super
inflated expectations and usually their
compensation is by the way quite high
and which adds up to these
expectations.
So and I myself after conducting maybe
four or 500 interviews with product
owners at Revolute I I also see this uh
unfortunately professionals with a lot
of years of experience from established
companies they don't have this u uh this
strong urge
to change status quo which by the way
will require I you
know toil tears and sweat
and and that's why uh what even if a
candidate doesn't have a lot of years of
experience but they they love building
things they've done it they worked with
engineers
uh maybe by the way maybe in their own
startup or one of the best
profiles that I've seen is
uh a tech co-founder
So I think that's that's probably the
best way to boost career is to you know
to to go and found something work in a
startup build things yourself or with a
very small team uh work in all different
areas because in startup you have to
work in all different areas and then
these kind of people uh they really
thrive at Revolute and even if they
don't have a lot of years of experience
They
actually attack a specific problem. They
they have a sense of
what can cause customer pain and they
are very fast moving to solve it quickly
and then that's how they get
appreciation from everyone around. team
starts respecting these people because
they solved some specific problem and
then they take another problem, they
solve it and then they take another and
that's how they grow in the company.
Essentially what I'm hearing is you hire
kind of more junior or super high raw
intellect driven uh passionate uh how do
you describe hungry people and this
explains why so many people have so get
promoted so much more that leave
Revolute because they start they're
earlier in their career and you help
them learn all these skills ownership
depth understanding working complex
environments building amazing products
so this all makes a lot of sense uh is
there thing you figured out about where
to find these people because this is the
dream. Hire amazingly smart people that
are super driven that nobody knows about
yet and then make them awesome. Uh where
what have you found anything about like
where to source and find these folks? So
the the way we work uh we have a weekly
catchups with the recruitment team. So
essentially they they are also a team
that runs in sprints. So we every every
sprint we define what do we want to
focus on which areas which companies.
One of the great sources is uh actually
uh looking into products and deps that
we love ourselves. So if someone built a
great product then it's likely a high
performer. So usually like we we provide
some great products in specific areas
that are more important for us to to the
sourcing team and they just uh try to
source uh targeting those companies. It
could be also different areas. It could
be even schools like good schools and uh
so it varies from sprint to sprint. That
makes sense. There's a Google had this
really good piece of advice. I think it
was on the podcast if not he tweeted
about it where you know you look at like
there's like successful companies but
then there's also like what function in
that company is the is the key to their
success. And so you want to go like a
company A for sales, company B for
customer support, C company C for
design. And so it sounds like that's
kind of the way you guys think about it
a little bit. Yeah. Very cool. Okay.
We're I love how we're uncovering and
we're uncovering this mystery. This
entire episode is brought to you by
Stripe. Every single one of the Forb's
top 50 AI companies that has a product
in the market today uses Stripe to
monetize it. $1.4 trillion flows through
Stripe annually, which is equivalent to
over 1% of the entire global GDP. And
Stripe isn't just a payments platform.
They also have a product called Stripe
Billing, which powers billing for
companies that you may have heard of,
OpenAI, Anthropic, Figma, Atlassian, and
over 300,000 other companies. Stripe
billing lets you bill and manage
customers no matter your pricing model.
From simple recurring billing to usage
based billing to sales negotiated
contracts, collect and retain more
revenue, automate revenue management
workflows, and accept payments globally.
Use Stripe to handle all of your payment
related needs, including billing,
revenue operations, checkout flows, or
simply launching or inventing new
business models. Learn all the ways that
Stripe can grow revenue for your
business at
stripe.com. Let me go in a different
direction and see if there's more to
learn here. When it comes to running
your teams, is there something that is
kind of fairly contrarian in how you
approach running the product team that
uh is maybe now not how other companies
operate that you think is key to your
success? I've changed in how I operate
after I joined Revolute. Uh probably
because Revolute is a founder company
and probably it's because Sofled and
also because my role is
uh quite spread across many things. So
my role at Revolute is leading product
function across company but also
leading retail which is a core part of
Revolute's business and
uh it's very easy to be spread thinly
across all those uh domains uh and
catching up with 50 or 70 projects uh
that are being executed simultaneously.
which would mean that you know you will
just spend your entire week just just
catching up on statuses. Uh not really
adding value to anyone but but it's also
you know it's also scary to not do it
because what if there are some things
going wrong right and you and you won't
be able to to to stop it or steer in a
in a better direction. So I think that's
why also a lot of managers especially in
senior positions they they they they
kind of stay high level and they don't
go very deep into details but so how we
do it differently at revolute is uh to
go very deep into details uh
we take maybe seven or 10 projects which
are most impactful for customers right
now and Um we go super deep into them
like really really deep
uh sitting with engineers like check
like reading code level and
understanding okay how how it's built
exactly and what's what's the underlying
issue and
uh you could think that okay but what
what about others like let's say 50 or
60 items right that are being executed
but the thing is that it
Actually, it's counterintuitive, but it
works really well because first of all,
teams, they talk to each other. There
are formal and informal ways of
communicating through meetups or just,
you know, meeting in the office and they
know which areas are being scrutinized
right now and like which team is being
scrutinized and uh it also gives
information on what are the current
priorities in the company. But in
addition, it's a signal to other teams
that if they are
not
proactively executing things on the
expected
level, paying attention to all the
details and being meticulous in all
those detail, especially in quality,
they will be the ones that you know will
will be reviewed to a such deep level
like next next phase, next site.
So as a result it also builds a great
discipline and since like revolute is an
is such a high concentration
of very ambitious people
who thrive for being you know best
versions of themselves and and grow and
it's very important for them to prove
that you know they can they can deliver
great things and build next like great
company. As a result, they do
everything
to operate autonomously and when you
start diving deep into details like you
see that everything is fine, you see the
model separand and you can understand
okay if this team is on good track or
not on good
track and if it's not on good track it
means that it probably will be one of
your next areas of focus. Okay. So, what
I'm hearing is there's you said there's
50 to 60 things kind of projects being
built. Maybe closer to 100 actually.
Okay. Okay. So, there's like a hundred
things happening uh at any point like
features being built, products being
launched and you and this is you and the
founders choose seven to 10 to focus on
or is it just you? Uh no, it's just it's
just me like just you. Okay. Yeah. And
and by the way, do you have like a
leadership team that you're a part of
with like a design lead or is it just
you basically at the top? So the way
it's structured um my responsibility is
a product function. We also have a head
of design function. It's also part of my
team. Uh but then all the other
functions they are separate like
engineering and data function and all of
them report directly into CEO. Got it.
Okay. So you so out of a hundred things
you choose here's like the seven to 10
things I'm going to go deep on. These
are the things that matter most to the
business that if they don't go well
it'll have the the most down downside
and then you just you're you basically
said you sit next to the engineers you
you get really involved in every detail.
Yeah. Awesome. Okay. That is definitely
counterintuitive. Uh we had Brian Chesky
in the podcast and the way he approached
this problem is he just cut down how
many things happen at Airbnb and because
he wants to be involved in everything
and so I think it's cool to hear a
different approach where okay we can
still do a lot of stuff but I'm going to
choose I'm going to go deep on the
things that matter most. No, I I think
we will never cut down since it's just
the appetite for for growth and
also entrepreneurial approach in the
company is so high that we will never
allow ourselves to give up on some great
opportunities. But also this this
approach is way more scalable. So while
leadership and obviously founders
themselves keep everyone accountable go
deep into details it doesn't mean that
they micromanage everyone that that's
actually that's actually a very
important thing. So the ideal position
for any product owner is to be fully
autonomous and again it doesn't mean
that you will never be challenged but if
when you're challenged you can show all
the logic behind decisions you've made
behind the road map and even if metrics
are not yet there like you you you will
still like let's say have this credit of
trust to keep building things the way
you want to build them eventually. Yeah.
you will you will be presenting the
outputs of your activity on these weekly
product reviews. But again, it's it's
not a micromanagement either. It's more
like let's say a last uh line of control
to make sure that what we're building is
all all makes sense and that's value and
is thoroughly thought in all details.
And then you said still every screen
that is shipped the founders review at
some point. So it's not like someone's
shipping stuff without the founders
seeing it in some form. Yeah. Yeah.
Exactly. They have like full overview
over everything. Uh but also the it it
actually um it allows us to build so
many
things
because there is actually little
micromanagement. Like if there was if
founders had to be like involved into
everything they had to they they had to
to cut the things down, right?
But by giving people autonomy, they
actually boost company growth and and as
a result, I think Revolute is is a
strong outlier in the industry in terms
of how many products been shipped and
how fast they shipped. Another thing
here is what I've mentioned previously
is us investing heavily into platform
and uh so that every solution is
scalable from the get-go so that we
don't have any custom solutions and I
know for example take our credit team
they ship new products like loans or
credit cards in the
country literally every month and it's
just maybe 300 100 people.
Uh, and I think that, you know, a credit
division in a in a incumbent bank is
maybe like two or three thousand people
building just credit products for a
single country and our team is building
it for 50
countries. So and yeah it's enabled
through this approach with uh platforms
which we build on top of small lean
teams which are fully equipped with
necessary functions and also have
autonomy in defining what what they're
building and the flat hierarchy
uh with everyone being accountable and
uh founders having direct view over
everyone
uh and uh inter intervening if if
necessary. I'm going to give people a
list of the things you guys do. We I
didn't do this at the beginning because
it would take too long, but you talk
about all the products you're building
and all the things that's going on. So,
I have like a list here that might it's
probably incomplete, but just to give
people a sense. So you guys have credit
cards, debit cards, savings accounts,
multicurrency accounts, domestic
international transfers, joint accounts,
uh minor accounts for like less than
people less than 18 years old, stock
trading, cryptocurrency purchasing,
loans. Is there anything big I missed? I
mean, it's a some of those things are
huge by itself. Let's say stock trading,
right? It's it's not just stocks. It's
also uh ETFs uh bonds and we we're
working on tax efficient accounts uh in
different countries and uh crypto. It's
we also allow staking crypto for
example. Uh we have uh uh on ramp
offramp products. We have acquiring
products on credit. We have loans. We
have a uh buy now pay later product. We
have we even launched mortgages. We
launched first mortgages in in Lithuania
recently. And this is uh and then all of
these across 50 different currencies and
countries. Yeah. 50 different
jurisdictions with each with its own
regulation with its own requirements.
Oh boy. Uh this is it's a good example
of Paul Graham has this concept of schle
blindness or shleing where people want
to avoid hard problems but that's where
the big opportunities are solving really
gnarly painful problems and that's
basically what you guys did. Yeah, that
that's one of the things that excites me
maybe the most. uh at
Revolute the market is so big and there
are still a lot of very inefficient
players and uh as a result customers
have a lot of problems that are
unsolved while we grow insanely um and I
think we'll soon be so when I joined we
had maybe just slightly north to 20
million customers now we are 50 million
customers soon we'll be at 100 million
customers the degree of you know
surrounding each customer with the
ecosystem of our products extends a lot.
So they become more and more people
start using Revolute as their main bank
account. they they start receiving the
their salary into Revalid, holding their
savings into Revolute because they they
love the product more and so we can
easily do another I don't know 2 3x 4x
in uh uh customer base growth but we can
also do another 10x growth in uh how
actively these people are using the
product. So it's let's say what 30 40x
to current uh 45 billion valuation
right. So it's
a it's like a a trillion dollar company
easily. And uh on that note I know what
I'm hearing is it's still a good a great
time to join. There's a massive upside.
So I know you guys are hiring. We'll
just note that real quick. There's
you're hiring product owners and a bunch
of other roles I imagine. Yeah. Yeah.
Yeah. We well uh as a as a someone who
owns a product function, I'm especially
interested in product owners obviously,
but we yeah, we hire a lot of roles. I
think we have maybe three or 400 open
positions currently. Oh my god. Okay. I
want to talk a bit about new stuff that
you work on. So, uh new products that
you decide to invest in. Is there
anything that you've figured out about
just like how to set up new products for
success? because a lot of the stuff
we've been talking about is staying on
top of stuff that you're iterating on
and making better. What have you learned
about just helping new products succeed?
Yeah. So, we launched quite a few
products that you actually maybe
wouldn't expect from a bank. Starting
with crypto that was uh insanely
successful, but also uh non-financial
services like uh booking a hotel through
Revolute app, our uh loyalty program,
Ref Points, which uh which is sort of
disrupting European market where people
don't get great benefits from spending
with card. In the US, you can easily get
like what 2% cash back with a credit
card uh or in some sort of points. In
Europe, they don't have it. And uh we
are actually the first to build a a a
program on card spend rewarding people
with really
meaningful monetary rewards in the in
the manner that I described like we we
understood okay what's the
recipe of this success to then scale it
and reproduce
So we built a new bets framework uh and
essentially everyone can come up with a
new idea. It could be a product owner
but it could be anyone like and they
need to show some key important things
which usually can expect from a startup
like market is there uh business case is
there uh we know that we can do it way
better than competitors leveraging for
example some things that that we have
obviously uh some uh concepts of product
and then what customer problem we're
solving and so on. uh and there is very
little bureaucracy again thanks to to
having founder hands on we can easily
get a green light on anything start
launching it quickly. Uh what what we do
is assemble same lean team uh with just
a few people to build first version and
then iterate and iterate and uh the main
thing here is to build first version
very quickly to get feedback but then
not scale it before you polish the
product. But then after after we make
sure that you know all metrics are fine,
retention is great, we start scaling it
and the good news is that it can be
instantly multiplied by our 50 million
customer base and get uh great traction.
So for example, one of the products that
you mentioned joint accounts essentially
an account that you could have with a
significant other one was one of the
recently launched feature and it grew
significantly and now it has over a
million uh active uh users. I hear one
of the ways you kind of approach these
early products differently is you guys
invest a lot in actually making it good
and not just like a scrappy MVP. Does
that ring a bell? Does that resonate?
Indeed. Um that that's what I maybe uh
meant by you know keeping your first
version narrowed down to a small user
base. But even even in this case we
still make sure that the product is wow.
So no one is excluded from this
requirement of you know building a super
polished product. It takes time but it
pays off. You know the thing is that
when you launch a scrappy version and
it's not getting traction how do you
know is it because the underlying idea
is wrong or maybe your product just
sucks and you need to to improve it. So
by you know by by forcing everyone to
build a product that people will love by
building a wow product we kind of cut
out this part of
uncertainty. So bottom line we can u cut
down the product in terms of
functionality to to just most critical
features but we will never compromise on
the quality and uh UX and the
aesthetics. An interesting advantage you
guys have that I'm realizing as you talk
is like most of the stuff you launch is
stuff that is clearly something people
will want because it's stuff that you
know they get other places but they get
the advantages of it being integrated
into all the other features and products
you have. So it's like you know a
cryptocurrency product I could it's kind
of like okay yeah people would love a
great cryptocurrency product built into
this or joint accounts. So there's
almost like a benefit of just like okay
the people will want this now let's just
make it work really well with everything
else we got and not hurt like you almost
don't need to be the best at every
product although it sounds like you
still try to be the best but we must be
the best yeah 100% but there's also like
you know like if you don't have the best
joint account but all the other stuff is
awesome people are like all right it's
fine it just makes my life easier but
tell me what I might be missing because
so I think there are those uh kind of
table stakes that we're building that
anyone would expect from a bank. Uh uh
like for example savings account, right?
It's it's just a basic thing that if if
a bank is not providing savings account,
you wouldn't even consider it. Uh but
then we make sure that our rates are
very competitive if not the best. Then
we make sure that there is no bad UX
like you know some banks they for
example they don't allow you to withdraw
instantly and there are delays uh or
they don't pay interest on daily basis.
We will never do that. We will allow you
if you if you want to move money out you
will be able to do it. You won't lose
any interest and interest is being paid
daily and this is a fully flexible
product. And then on top of it um what I
would call uh um like maybe some some
delighters is we we will allow you to
open the savings account in many
currencies. So we want to add like
different currencies. So because now
interest rates are going down so people
might find it valuable to open a savings
account in for example I know in Europe
like Swedish Corona interest rates are
higher than Europe but it could be even
something like Brazilian real with what
12% interest rate versus like two or 3%
on euros and then as a cherry on top
there is this all all that in an amazing
new app very smooth uh you can set uh
custom um wallpapers, you can set goals,
you can automate uh spare change towards
your savings content and and all those
features. So there is an underlying uh
basic like uh fundamental layer that
where you need to be just you know on
par with competition. But then there are
a lot of things on top that just make
people love your product way
more. And obviously there are a lot of
synergies in between those things. Uh so
yeah, thinking of crypto like you can
just receive crypto on your wallet and
then you can just instantly convert it
to to cash on your account or just spend
it with your card. How amazing can it
be, right? Just just buy a coffee with
uh with Ethereum. I love that. Okay, let
me take uh this opportunity to try to
summarize what I've learned from you so
far in terms of what you guys have
figured out about creating incredible
product leaders that go on to do
wonderful things and basically one of
the one of the top three most successful
companies at this. So there's kind of
these two buckets as I talked to you and
the Palunteer guy. Uh there's kind of
like the hiring piece and then there's
the what you do to help incubate this
kind of forge for incredible product
leaders. So in the what you do
internally kind of the four bullet
points I've got here is give people a
lot of ownership. They're essentially
GMs of the product, the
future. There's a lot of focus on depth
and complexity and getting really good
at solving really gnarly problems. And
then there's building a focus on
building wow products, amazing, lovable
products that are very that have a very
high bar. And then there's kind of like
a sub bullet point that I think is
probably impactful here is just working
closely with detail obsessed founders or
product leaders like you and learning
from you all and just like seeing the
value and impact of being super detail
oriented on that bucket. Is there
anything else you think is super core
that I missed before we get to hiring?
Yeah, I would just maybe uh highlight uh
the aspect of this like going deep into
details, right? It's it's that there are
two main uh streams. First is let's say
being technical understanding how
underlying systems work but second is
also you know building empathy towards
customers understand the possible
contexts uh and making sure that your
product will satisfy each one of them.
That's a great point. So it's like
actually understanding the bare metal of
what is happening and how it's possible
and then making the experience as simple
and wowable as possible. There is also a
third aspect uh but it's a boring one
and it's a it's it's like complying with
all possible regulations and making sure
that your product you know will will
satisfy the regulator. Uh but it's also
an important part of of the job. Like
what I get from that is just building
patience.
I would say I would say it's actually
being able to to unblock your team and
that sometimes require product owners to
team role changes because it it also
means that you know you could easily get
stuck with a lot of uh people just
looking into each other and thinking
okay can they approve it can they not
approve it. We try to innovate on it. We
try to automate as many things as
possible. We use even AI models for
that. But uh it also requires a product
owner to be able to to get things done.
You know, ju just just getting people
down to to consensus and uh uh
understanding who are your stakeholders,
how to uh get them to the necessary
decision and then blocking your team. So
that eventually like the value is
shipped to to customers. Awesome. So
essentially it's just getting done,
plowing through blockers, dealing with
many stakeholders. Yeah, that's always
the most important. Okay, that that's a
great addition. I could see why that
would be really helpful for folks that
are trying to get ahead in their career.
Okay, and then on the hiring piece, what
you look for is raw
intellect, drive, hunger, passion.
Essentially, those are the first two and
then interestingly non senior non not
people with a ton of experience in the
problem space more so focusing on
intellect than
hunger. Is there anything else in that
bucket that you think is important that
leads to people being really successful?
Most importantly, it's again getting
things done, getting your hands dirty
and you know like great product owners
are very
hands-on. They don't think of themselves
as uh
uh managers who just give task to people
and wait them to to complete it. They
they just go and get things done and uh
they understand that most important
things uh they will likely have to do
themselves and they understand that
there needs to be relentless focus on
execution and if something is 99% done
it's closer to 0% rather than 100%.
Whoa.
Uh same more there is the kind of the
insight there is just like things seem
like they're 99% done but they're
actually very far from being done like
sometimes the product is built but then
product owners are the ones who also you
know make sure that for example
uh customer care team or sales and
marketing team are using it to a full
extent right because without it it could
be just another useless feature which no
and no one knows about it that is super
cool I like that
mentality Uh let me ask you something
completely different. What's kind of the
story of you landing at Revolute? I know
you had to move your family. It was a
whole adventure. Uh my journey into
Revolute actually coincided with me
moving to the UK. So it was a completely
new um environment for for myself. Uh
it's it's it's a huge stress load for
the brain as well. It's and it's not
only about you know using the the other
side of the lane on the road in the UK
but also it's a lot of things for
example in in the industry like some
concepts that I've never heard about and
actually I've never worked at fintech
before so I also changed the industry so
it was like a complete uh complete uh
turnaround for for me and for my career
but I was uh I was very determined and
excited about it because everyone who
I've been talking to they were saying
Revolute is like it's top talent he's a
revolute like all best product people
are at revel and I I
I really wanted to be part of this great
team eventually it actually appeared to
be advantageous for me because I also
had this fresh view on things and uh
even in the Revolute app which is
actually way way better than other banks
products, right? But even there I found
some things that for me because of this
like lack of context, they were not
intuitive and uh I worked hard to
uh with the team to to change that.
Okay, great. I'm going to take us to
recurring segment of the podcast. I'm
going to take us to fail corner. Sun
fail corner. Uh the idea here is people
come on this podcast, they share all
these stories of success, everything's
always going great, but in reality
things don't often go great and there's
a lot of things that uh don't go right.
Is there a story you could share where
where things went wrong in your career
where you failed with a product you were
building or a moment in your career
where things were looking really bad?
I think the most spectacular failures
probably were on the earlier stage of my
career which I studied back at
university
and maybe in my second year of
university I started building some
things different startups and one of
them uh was actually a product that
makes me proud even now because it was
like what uh uh 15 years ago. Uh so 20
2010, meaning like still no no one
really had even iPhones back then. Uh
and me and my friends, we started
building a website that uh allows people
to buy tickets to the senior so that
they can skip the line. So they they
don't need to come in advance to select
best seats and they can just uh buy a
ticket online and uh go to the seats
directly. something that today seems as
a commodity back then like no one had it
like people were using pieces of paper
and we built like an end to end uh
system uh because not only we needed to
build a website but we also needed to
build hardware to scan those tickets for
example and and to have these tickets in
digital format we needed to hack SMS
standard because again like the people
didn't have smartphones They had this
Nokia and uh we were sending uh images,
QR codes inside an SMS which which is
like a a hack of the of the standards in
a way and then we were scanning those
things with our own devices and we built
our own devices with scanners and we
actually like we created this this
beautiful uh like um devices made from
stainless steel which looked really nice
inside cinema halls. Um, and I remember
how I was excited about it with my
friends. We were like, what an amazing
thing. It's like, look, we we're
bringing future here, but uh we actually
uh we spent all our uh investment on on
this hardware uh and we were expecting
that you know like everyone will just
rush into using our system. uh but it
was a very low share of customers who
started buying tickets online because
people were not ready for it which was
growing quite slowly and eventually we
had to close it because we simply ran
out of money because we spent all of it
on on this on this hardware without any
proven business model. So something that
that currently looks like an obvious
mistake back then we were just you know
enjoying building a product that we
would love to use ourselves which I
think is is the right principle but it
also it also was a very painful lesson.
You need to stay lean. You need to
validate things before you scale them.
Uh you need to think way more about the
run rate of your business. So there were
a lot of painful lessons for me. Since
then, I also try to avoid working with
hardware. I was just going to say that
that's a common common challenge for
startups trying to get right into
hardware. Uh although I wouldn't be
surprised now if Revolute launches
something another product and this is
this is the a new product line of
Revolute now that you've had that
experience. Yeah, we launched
uh POS terminals for aquarium. All
right, there we go. Demetri, before we
get to our very exciting lightning
round, is there anything else that we
haven't touched on that you think might
be really helpful for listeners to hear?
Maybe a last wisdom nugget that you
haven't already shared or even just
something to kind of double down on that
you've already shared. No, I think that
it was an amazing chat and thanks you
like we covered a lot of different
topics. I would just maybe uh summarize
that you know if you if you're excited
to build uh certain things uh never
hesitate to do it the the best way to do
it is probably your own startup and uh
it also the the what will give you the
steepest possible learning curve but
then if you want to join a company try
to choose the one that that has this
highest entrepreneurial spirit and that
will allow you to work as closer
to a mode of a founder as you possibly
can. That's a recurring theme in these
conversations I'm having with companies
that produce the PMs that have the
steepest career uh trajectory. And so I
that that advice is exactly what I'm
taking away from this too, assuming you
want your career to accelerate really
quickly after you go work at this
company. Okay, Dimmitri, with that we've
reached a very exciting lightning round.
Are you ready? Yes. Let's go. Here we
go. Okay, first question. What are two
or three books that you've recommended
most to other people? Uh, The Hard Thing
About Hard Things by Ben Harovitz.
Actually read it quite uh some time ago,
but I I found myself recommending it to
other product managers most often. It's
actually illustrative that
uh to be a great product manager,
someone needs to
uh strive uh to being a great
co. And besides this book emphasizes uh
the importance of building systematic
solutions and scalable solutions which
is critical for scaling the company.
also uh be being honest on how important
it is to grind
stuff. Um and then second book is uh uh
I I read it more recently uh built by
Tony Fidel. Um, I was really inspired by
this one. Uh, especially given uh like
how I appreciate uh how it's not easy to
build hardware and what what uh Tony was
describing there just is just super
exciting and and inspiring and also I
you know I think that there are
different archetypes of product
managers. Uh there are people who tend
to disrupt things more personally I
think about myself as of a builder. So
Tony's uh uh principles that he uh
highlighted in the book, they they
resonate with me a lot. I'm trying to
get Tony on the podcast. If anyone
listening knows Tony Fidel and uh can
nudge him, hey, say yes to Lenny, that'd
be great. I've been in touch with his
team. He's not doing podcast right now,
but I'm trying to get him on. Okay,
moving on. Do you have a favorite recent
movie or TV show that you've really
enjoyed? I think the last movie I
watched uh was Openenheimimer. uh and uh
I really liked it. I always uh love
watching uh biopics. Uh I think they
give you kind of a perspective and let
you think about, you know, things in
perspective. Is there a favorite product
you recently discovered that you really
love? Manos is a is a great thing. The
AI agent. Yeah. Yeah. It's just like I
was super impressed how I I was
mesmerized like it's it's so autonomous
and smooth and I I just spent like a few
hours
uh vibe coding and I created this
JavaScript app that uh sends me a rare
English word every day to learn and
remember and it like it's it worked and
I was I was just amazed. What's a what's
a learned what's a word you learned? Uh
ineffable. It was the word. I love that
it's still going. That's great. Do you
have a favorite life motto that you
often come back to find useful in work
or in life? I love this phrase. Um I
think uh Eisenhower said it. Uh plans
are worthless but planning is
everything. It's it's like, you know, we
we we often say how important it is to
be flexible and agile and adjust to
changing
circumstances, but it doesn't allow us
to actually not have a plan at all. It's
important for us to remember that, you
know, we we always need to think many
steps ahead and while being flexible, we
also need to uh to think things
thoroughly. Final question for folks
that are maybe checking out Revolute for
the first time that want to play with it
already users. What's the most
underrated feature? What's something
that you think people should check out?
Maybe they're not aware of or even just
like a UX, I don't know, animation,
something fun that people may not know
about. The thing that is not yet widely
used, but I really loved it is what we
call a wealth protection. So if you go
to settings, you can enable a limit for
any transfers outside of Revolute. And
if you want to do a transfer above this
limit, you will have to do a selfie
check, which is our appropriatory
technology. We do a video selfie. And it
allows us to make sure that it's you, no
one else is doing the transfer. And uh
it's
actually it's almost as smooth as Face
ID. And uh the way team built it is is
really great. I would I'm really proud
of those guys. Demetri, you guys are
doing something very special. I really
appreciate you spending so much time
with me chatting through all the things
you guys have figured out. I think this
is going to help a lot of different
companies level up the way they think
about product and for people to join
Revolute that want to uh experience this
and accelerate their career. So, thank
you for being here. Two final questions.
Where can folks find you if they want to
reach out and how can listeners be
useful to you? Uh I think the best way
is to find me on LinkedIn and um yeah I
would be happy to receive a note from
anyone on how we can improve the product
any feedback on the product and also if
uh if you know someone who can be a
great fit to Revolute after uh after
you've listened to what I've told uh uh
then yeah I would be grateful for that
as well. Awesome. You're about to get a
flood of applications. Get prepared.
Demetri, thank you. Yeah, Lenny, thanks
a lot. It was amazing time. Thank you
very much. Same. Bye, everyone.
Thank you so much for listening. If you
found this valuable, you can subscribe
to the show on Apple Podcasts, Spotify,
or your favorite podcast app. Also,
please consider giving us a rating or
leaving a review as that really helps
other listeners find the podcast. You
can find all past episodes or learn more
about the show at lennispodcast.com.
See you in the next episode.